---
title: A vision for the future of work
author: the Design Cooperative
lead-image-url: /assets/images/posts/questions_10_2017.png
lead-image-caption: We begin with questions.
---

<!-- 

how to insert an image:

{% include image.html url="/assets/images/posts/questions_10_2017.jpg" caption="We begin with questions." %}

-->

Most new businesses wait until they have everything figured out to start telling their story. We’re hoping you’ll join us in an experiment in doing the opposite.

<!-- more -->

Our idea is a lil’ something called the Design Cooperative. And we’re driven by a mission of getting design methods into more people’s hands. Here’s why:

- Everyone is capable of learning and practicing design skills, but design education isn’t accessible or affordable. For many, it’s not effective at helping them find a job they want.
- Diverse teams create better solutions, but design talent is mostly white and male.
- Design education is great at fundamentals, but not great at application. Experience is the best instructor.
- The creative work of the 21st century needs to align a paycheck with a purpose greater than the motivation of a job well done.
- Everyone (brands, companies, nonprofits, people) wants authentic, purpose-driven communication, clear-eyed design work, and flawless execution. Agency models are increasingly misaligned with their customers in a shifting marketplace, yet replicating these talents in house is expensive and difficult.

We think that in order to change the face of design education and reinvigorate the practice, the Design Cooperative should sit at the intersection of a school, a studio and a movement. But, we also feel strongly that it has to be self-sustaining. 

To do something this novel requires a totally new approach, which has lead us to believe that the best model to set this up for success is a hybrid worker co-op. A democratically run organization where decisions on how to work and what work is taken on is made by worker-owners. An organization that is formed, molded and maintained by its membership, and diversifies and gets better over time by grooming a more diverse pool of talent to propel itself with.

#### An organization that is formed, molded and maintained by its membership, and diversifies and gets better over time by grooming a more diverse pool of talent to propel itself with. 

Imagine an apprentice who trains and perfects their craft under our mentors, who then is given a potential path to co-op ownership, and therefore a voice in how this thing runs, expands and impacts the community around it in the future. Imagine each city across the country having its own co-op franchise (i.e. Design Cooperative, Chicago Workshop), and re-inventing the design education and service approach in a completely new way.

We think it’s special, but it craves feedback from the people who know this community best - all of you.

We’re hosting a [free session on Friday, October 27th](https://www.eventbrite.com/e/designing-the-ideal-design-shop-tickets-38734833931) as part of AIGA’s Design Week here in Chicago to discuss and challenge what we’ve learned thus far. We’d love for you to join us for breakfast and a conversation around how to spread design literacy in a new way.

In the meantime, check out our [manifesto](https://docs.google.com/document/d/10QOmwrdezX-3n9c9A3mD8XrOW1F3fyoTFgVrXsv-I1s) and co-op [roadmap](https://trello.com/b/PoGlOFGm/roadmap), which are purposefully transparent and available to the public for feedback. If we won’t see you on the 27th, please feel free to shoot us a note at [hello@designcoop.co](mailto: hello@designcoop.co) with questions or feedback.  We’re looking forward to your thoughts either way.